So let's start with what exactly a framework is. Now
I'll be very honest here,
you can fight a religious war over this and there are people out there to whom it's very important to
differentiate what a library is and what a framework is,
I'm not one of them. Still I'll give you the common differentiation and explain why we differentiate it
or why that is so important to some people.
So we get Javascript libraries and frameworks and a Javascript library in the end is a third-party package,
doesn't have to be,
you could also write it yourself and and just share it across multiple projects
but in the end it's a package which you bring into your project that adds certain functionalities. JQuery
helps us with querying the DOM, Lodash added a couple of utility functions and axios helps us with
sending HttpRequests.
So libraries typically are focused on one or a few core tasks and they help you with that,
so I already named these examples.
Now frameworks on the other hand also are third-party packages,
they also add functionalities but typically they add more functionalities, also from different areas and
they typically also give you certain rules or certain structure on how you should build your Javascript
driven application and therefore they force you into a certain rule set
but at the same time by doing that, they often make it easier for you to build an application and make
it easier for you to focus on your core business logic and spend less time on all the nitty-gritty details.
So they typically provide a complete structure for building Javascript applications
and the big examples we got there, not the only ones but the big examples we got are Angular, Vue.js
and React.js, though as I mentioned React.js is kind of an edge case, it's actually a library but
a pretty big one with a bunch of different features built in and it spawned a huge ecosystem that effectively
together forms a framework
you could say. So let's have a look at these three here.
We got Angular, we got React and got Vue.js, all these libraries here or all these things here are Javascript
libraries or frameworks, React is called a library and Vue.js and Angular would be called frameworks
and as I mentioned, to some people that's really important, that help us with building Javascript projects.
Now it's important to realize that you will still be working with Javascript and you can do the things
with Javascript that you learned about in this course
but these frameworks and libraries will help you do that, will allow you to focus on your business logic
and spend less time on the details,
for example when you typically need to select a button and add an event listener and so on,
these frameworks take such work away from you by giving you a totally different way of thinking about
your project.
Now these are not the only Javascript frameworks we have,
they are particularly useful for building powerful user interfaces but we've also got other frameworks
that would help us with building online shops and so on and
we also got not just frameworks for the frontend,
so for the code that runs in the browser, we also got frameworks that run on the server side if we use
Javascript there, for example for Node.js which we'll have a look at later in a separate module,
there would be a framework called Express.js but we'll focus on that later when we talk about Node.js,
for now let's stick to these client side, browser side frameworks here.
Now if we quickly have a look at them, then Angular for example introduces a new language or uses a new
language, Typescript, which actually builds up on Javascript and which as part of your development build
process is compiled to Javascript.
It's a bit like using next generation Javascript with Babel, just with even more features which don't
even exist in the next Javascript generation.
Now Typescript is a standalone project detached from Angular but Angular heavily uses it,
if you want to learn more about Angular and Typescript, I got dedicated courses on that.
Angular is extremely popular and it's a huge framework,
it contains a lots of features,
it contains features for rendering beautiful user interfaces, for animating stuff, for validating user
input,
it contains everything built into the framework for sending HttpRequests so that you don't need axios
and much more.
Now React is also a framework or a pretty rich library if you want to call it like this and it uses
enhanced Javascript syntax as I like to call it here.
It uses a feature which is called jsx and this allows you to add a certain syntax to your Javascript
files which is not supported in vanilla Javascript, which you wouldn't run like this in the browser but
which, just like Typescript, is compiled to regular Javascript instructions as part of your development
process and you'll see that jsx thing in action later in the React example, it in the end helps us
with building rich user interfaces with the help of React without having to write all the create element
and append and remove child instructions on our own
and that's by the way a general idea of all these frameworks, they take away the need for us to manually
add elements to the DOM and remove them and so on and instead all these frameworks give us a way of defining
the result we want to have,
defining certain conditions when that result should change and then the frameworks will take care that
changes are applied to the page the user sees when our conditions change
but again you will see that in practice at the example of React a little bit later in this module.
Now React itself is a library but it spawned a huge ecosystem which adds certain features around React
so that even though React in its core is much leaner than Angular, it has no built in validation, no HTTP
support,
even without that we get a couple of other packages that we typically combine with React so that we
can add such functionality and just like Angular, it's extremely popular.
Well and the third big framework you have in Javascript land is Vue.js. It uses regular Javascript, you
can use it with Typescript but you don't have to, for Angular you basically have to use Typescript and
the good thing about Vue.js is of the three frameworks,
it's the easiest to learn
I'd argue. It's also popular,
not quite as popular as the other two but still very popular and it, just like Angular, contains all important
features. Angular ships even more than Vue.js, Angular has even more built-in features than Vue.js
but Vue.js has more built-in features than React. So unlike React, you don't need to combine it with
other libraries to get everything you need to build powerful applications, Vue.js got all that built
in.
Now that's the rough comparison,
all three are great,
I got courses on each of them so if you want to learn more about React, want to learn more about Vue
or Angular, take my dedicated courses of course, I'd be more than happy to welcome you there and in addition,
I also attached a link to a more detailed comparison which I created in case you want to find out which
one is best for you.
Now with that however, let's take a closer look at React and understand what that does for us.